README.rst, before:

****************************
Mopidy-Tidal
****************************

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/Mopidy-Tidal.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Mopidy-Tidal/
    :alt: Latest PyPI version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/Mopidy-Tidal.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Mopidy-Tidal/
    :alt: Number of PyPI downloads

Tidal music service integration.



Installation
============

Install by running::

    pip install Mopidy-Tidal
    or
    pip3 install Mopidy-Tidal

Or, if available, install the Debian/Ubuntu package from `apt.mopidy.com
<http://apt.mopidy.com/>`_.


Configuration
=============

Before starting Mopidy, you must add configuration for
Mopidy-Tidal to your Mopidy configuration file::

    [tidal]
    enabled = true
    username = YOUR_TIDAL_USERNAME
    password = YOUR_TIDAL_PASSWORD
    quality = LOSSLESS


Quality can be set to LOSSLESS, HIGH or LOW. Hi_RES(master) is currently not supported.
Lossless quality (FLAC) requires Tidal HiFi Subscription.
For High and Low quality be sure to have installed gstreamer bad-plugins, for eg::

    sudo apt-get install gstreamer1.0-plugins-bad


This is mandatory to be able to play m4a streams.

Project resources
=================

- `Source code <https://github.com/tehkillerbee/mopidy-tidal>`_
- `Issue tracker <https://github.com/tehkillerbee/mopidy-tidal/issues>`_


Credits
=======

- Original author: `mones88 <https://github.com/mones88>`__
- Current maintainer: `tehkillerbee <https://github.com/tehkillerbee>`__
- `Contributors <https://github.com/tehkillerbee/mopidy-tidal/graphs/contributors>`_


Changelog
=========

v0.2.4
----------------------------------------
- Added track caching (thanks to MrSurly and kingosticks)

v0.2.3
----------------------------------------
- fixed python 3 compatibility issues
- Change dependency tidalapi4mopidy back to tidalapi (thanks to stevedenman)

v0.2.2
----------------------------------------
- added support browsing of favourite tracks, moods, genres and playlists (thanks to SERVCUBED)


v0.2.1
----------------------------------------
- implemented get_images method
- updated tidal's api key


v0.2.0
----------------------------------------
- playlist support (read-only)
- implemented artists lookup
- high and low quality streams should now work correctly
- cache search results (to be improved in next releases)

v0.1.0
----------------------------------------

- Initial release.

Commit message:

Use new OAuth flow added in upstream tidalapi

README.rst, after:

****************************
Mopidy-Tidal
****************************

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/Mopidy-Tidal.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Mopidy-Tidal/
    :alt: Latest PyPI version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/Mopidy-Tidal.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Mopidy-Tidal/
    :alt: Number of PyPI downloads

Tidal music service integration.



Installation
============

Install by running::

    pip install Mopidy-Tidal
    or
    pip3 install Mopidy-Tidal

Or, if available, install the Debian/Ubuntu package from `apt.mopidy.com
<http://apt.mopidy.com/>`_.


Configuration
=============

Before starting Mopidy, you must add configuration for
Mopidy-Tidal to your Mopidy configuration file::

    [tidal]
    enabled = true
    username = YOUR_TIDAL_USERNAME
    password = YOUR_TIDAL_PASSWORD
    quality = LOSSLESS


Quality can be set to LOSSLESS, HIGH or LOW. Hi_RES(master) is currently not supported.
Lossless quality (FLAC) requires Tidal HiFi Subscription.
For High and Low quality be sure to have installed gstreamer bad-plugins, for eg::

    sudo apt-get install gstreamer1.0-plugins-bad


This is mandatory to be able to play m4a streams.

OAuth Flow
----------

Using the new OAuth flow, you now have to visit a link to connect the app to your login. When you restart the Mopidy server, check the logs and find a line like:

    ``Visit link.tidal.com/AAAAA to log in, the code will expire in 300 seconds``

Go to that link in your browser, approve it, and that should be it. Note that this is a **blocking** action, so Mopidy will not load until you approve the application. You will also have to do this every time Mopidy restarts.

Project resources
=================

- `Source code <https://github.com/tehkillerbee/mopidy-tidal>`_
- `Issue tracker <https://github.com/tehkillerbee/mopidy-tidal/issues>`_


Credits
=======

- Original author: `mones88 <https://github.com/mones88>`__
- Current maintainer: `tehkillerbee <https://github.com/tehkillerbee>`__
- `Contributors <https://github.com/tehkillerbee/mopidy-tidal/graphs/contributors>`_


Changelog
=========

v0.2.4
----------------------------------------
- Added track caching (thanks to MrSurly and kingosticks)

v0.2.3
----------------------------------------
- fixed python 3 compatibility issues
- Change dependency tidalapi4mopidy back to tidalapi (thanks to stevedenman)

v0.2.2
----------------------------------------
- added support browsing of favourite tracks, moods, genres and playlists (thanks to SERVCUBED)


v0.2.1
----------------------------------------
- implemented get_images method
- updated tidal's api key


v0.2.0
----------------------------------------
- playlist support (read-only)
- implemented artists lookup
- high and low quality streams should now work correctly
- cache search results (to be improved in next releases)

v0.1.0
----------------------------------------

- Initial release.
